README.md, before:

# Discord Bot Template
If you want to make a Discord bot, this is a good place to start.

## Purpose
I am often requested to make Discord bots for people, and got tired of building them from the ground up. This
repository contains a set of files which are a good starting point for implementing features. It may also function
as a learning resource for those interested in creating their first bot.

## Repository Contents

### Root-level files
- `bot.js` - The entry point for the bot. Handles logging into Discord, and routes events to their handlers
- `config.example.json` - Example configuration file. Contains data required for the bot to function
- `errorHandlers.js` - Exports functions used by the bot to handle various errors
- `lib.js` - Contains helper functions used throughout the bot
- `package.json` - Contains identifying data and dependency information for the bot
- `.gitignore` - Lists files which should not be committed to git
- `README.md` - What you're reading right now!

### Directories
- `assets` - Used to contain additional config files, images, and other assets your bot may need to reference
- `clientEventHandlers` - Contains files which export functions used to handle various events emitted by Discord
- `commandCategories` - Contains files which define commands your users may be granted access to
- `cron` - Contains files which should be run regularly as cron jobs. These are not loaded by the bot directly
- `scripts` - Contains files which should be run standalone to perform bot maintenance

## Create and Run the Bot

### Required Software
- [git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)

### Create a Discord Application
1. You will need to access the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications) and create an
application.
2. Click the "Bot" button on the sidebar.
3. Click the "Add Bot" button and confirm the dialog.
4. Note your bot's `Token`.
5. Click the "OAuth2" button on the sidebar and note your `Client ID`.
6. Access the [Permissions Calculator](https://discordapi.com/permissions.html) and determine what permissions your
bot will need, then copy the URL at the bottom of the page. You will also need to enter your bot's Client ID here.
7. Navigate to the link in your URL, and grant the bot access to your server.

### Run the Bot
1. Run the following commands in a terminal
```shell
git clone https://github.com/LegendaryLinux/DiscordBotTemplate.git
cd DiscordBotTemplate
npm install
```
2. Create a new file called `config.json` and place it in the root directory of the project, then copy the contents of
`config.example.json` into it.
3. Put the client ID and token you noted above into `config.json` where specified.
4. Back in your terminal, run
```shell
npm run dev
```
5. Observe the bot has come online in your Discord server.
6. Type `!hello` to have the bot reply to you.

Commit message:

Add information about pre-build functionality to the README

README.md, after:

# Discord Bot Template
If you want to make a Discord bot, this is a good place to start.

## Purpose
I am often requested to make Discord bots for people, and got tired of building them from the ground up. This
repository contains a set of files which are a good starting point for implementing features. It may also function
as a learning resource for those interested in creating their first bot.

## Pre-Packaged Functionality
This template bot comes with a few handy features:
- `!help` command which sends a DM to a user describing the available commands. This command takes into account
the permissions required to use each command, and only informs users of commands they are authorized to use.
- Command Categories make it easy to define commands for your bot, and they provide permission levels in case you
need to restrict certain commands to moderators or administrators.
- The bot will automatically create a `Moderator` role in any server it joins if the role is not already present.
This role is configurable in the `config.json` file, and is required for the command permission system to
function properly.

## Repository Contents

### Root-level files
- `bot.js` - The entry point for the bot. Handles logging into Discord, and routes events to their handlers
- `config.example.json` - Example configuration file. Contains data required for the bot to function
- `errorHandlers.js` - Exports functions used by the bot to handle various errors
- `lib.js` - Contains helper functions used throughout the bot
- `package.json` - Contains identifying data and dependency information for the bot
- `.gitignore` - Lists files which should not be committed to git
- `README.md` - What you're reading right now!

### Directories
- `assets` - Used to contain additional config files, images, and other assets your bot may need to reference
- `clientEventHandlers` - Contains files which export functions used to handle various events emitted by Discord
- `commandCategories` - Contains files which define commands your users may be granted access to
- `cron` - Contains files which should be run regularly as cron jobs. These are not loaded by the bot directly
- `scripts` - Contains files which should be run standalone to perform bot maintenance

## Create and Run the Bot

### Required Software
- [git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/)

### Create a Discord Application
1. You will need to access the [Discord Developer Portal](https://discord.com/developers/applications) and create an
application.
2. Click the "Bot" button on the sidebar.
3. Click the "Add Bot" button and confirm the dialog.
4. Note your bot's `Token`.
5. Click the "OAuth2" button on the sidebar and note your `Client ID`.
6. Access the [Permissions Calculator](https://discordapi.com/permissions.html) and determine what permissions your
bot will need, then copy the URL at the bottom of the page. You will also need to enter your bot's Client ID here.
7. Navigate to the link in your URL, and grant the bot access to your server.

### Run the Bot
1. Run the following commands in a terminal
```shell
git clone https://github.com/LegendaryLinux/DiscordBotTemplate.git
cd DiscordBotTemplate
npm install
```
2. Create a new file called `config.json` and place it in the root directory of the project, then copy the contents of
`config.example.json` into it.
3. Put the client ID and token you noted above into `config.json` where specified.
4. Back in your terminal, run
```shell
npm run dev
```
5. Observe the bot has come online in your Discord server.
6. Type `!hello` to have the bot reply to you.
